## Guest Note App - Development Guide

This document outlines the development process for the Guest Note App, including the chosen tech stack, initial steps, and project structure.

### **Tools & Tech Stack**

The Guest Note App utilizes the following technologies:

* **Backend Framework:** Node.js with Express.js
* **Programming Language:** TypeScript
* **Object-Relational Mapper (ORM):** Prisma
* **Database Engine:** MySQL
* **Authentication:** Passport.js
* **Testing Framework:** Jest
* **Task Scheduling:** node-schedule
* **Email Sending:** nodemailer
* **Real-Time Communication:** Socket.io (Considered for future enhancements)
* **Containerization:** Docker and Docker Compose

### **Development Environment**

* **ubuntu**: 22.04.3 LTS
* **npm**: v8.19.4
* **node**: v20.11.1

### **Initial Steps**

1. ✔ [**Project Setup and Environment Configuration:**](./03.02.Project-Initializing.md)
    * Initialize the project with `npm init -y` and install dependencies using `npm install`.

2. ✔ [**Dockerizing the Application:**](./03.03.Dockerizing-the-Application.md)
    * Create a Dockerfile and docker-compose.yml for containerized deployment.

3. ✔ [**Create Project Base:**](./03.04.Project-Base-Setup.md)
    * Initialize an Express server
    * Setup logger (using morgan)
    * Setup error handlers classes and middleware
    * Create a basic routes and middleware
    * Create a dummy endpoint to test routes, controllers and middleware functionality

4. ✔ [**Implementing the Data Models:**](./03.05.Implementing-the-Data-Models.md)
    * Define data models using Prisma to map to the MySQL database tables.

5. ✔ [**Implementing Authentication:**](./03.06.Implementing-Authentication.md)
    * Integrate Passport.js for user registration, login, and authorization functionalities.

6. ✔ **Core Functionalities Development:**
    * [Core Functionalities Development.](./03.07.01.Core-Functionalities-Development.md)
    * [Implement initial notification system.](./03.07.02.Notification-System.md)
    * [Notification System Structure.](./03.07.03.Notification-System-Structure.md)
    * [Daily Notifications.](./03.07.04.Daily-Notifications.md)

7. `[TODO]` **Testing:**
    * Write unit tests using Jest to ensure code quality and reliability.
    * Conduct manual testing to identify and fix bugs or usability issues.

8. `[TODO]` **Update Readme File:**
    * Document the project setup instructions, dependencies, and usage.

9. `[TODO]` **Initial Deployment:**
    * TBD

### **Project Structure**

The project follows a modular structure with the following key directories:

```
guest-note-app/
├── src/
│   ├── index.ts
│   ├── server.ts
│   ├── config/
│   ├── error-handler/
│   ├── middleware/
│   ├── settings/
│   ├── notifications/
│   ├── types/
│   ├── shared/
│   │   ├── base.model.ts
│   │   ├── base.router.ts
│   │   ├── app.regex.ts
│   │   └── ...
│   ├── models/
│   │   ├── user.model.ts
│   │   └── ...
│   ├── repositories/
│   │   ├── user.repository.ts
│   │   └── ...
│   ├── modules/
│   │   ├── module-name/
│   │   │   ├── module-name.controller.ts
│   │   │   ├── module-name.enums.ts
│   │   │   ├── module-name.routes.ts
│   │   │   ├── module-name.service.ts
│   │   │   ├── module-name.types.ts
│   │   │   ├── module-name.validation.ts
│   │   │   ├── tests/
│   │   │   └── ...
│   │   ├── another-module/
│   │   │   └── ...
│   │   └── ...
│   └── ...
├── types/
│   └── ...
├── .dockerignore
├── .env
├── .gitignore
├── backend.Dockerfile
├── docker-compose.yml
├── jest.config
├── tsconfig.json
└── README.md
```

* **src:** Contains the source code for the application.
    * **index.ts** and **server.ts**: Entry points for the application.
    * **config**: Stores configuration files.
    * **error-handler**: Handles errors and exceptions.
    * **middleware**: Contains middleware functions for request processing.
    * **settings**: Application settings and environment variables.
    * **notifications**: Handles notification functionalities (future implementation).
    * **types**: Custom TypeScript type definitions.
    * **shared**: Reusable components and utilities.
    * **models**: Data models for database entities.
    * **repositories**: Data access layer for interacting with the database.
    * **modules**: Each module represents a specific functionality (e.g., user management, notes).
        * Subdirectories within modules can hold controllers, enums, routes, services, types, validation logic, and tests.
* **types**: Global TypeScript type definitions.
* **.dockerignore**: Specifies files to exclude from Docker image creation.
* **.env**: Environment variables for configuration.
* **.gitignore**: Specifies files to ignore from version control.
* **backend.Dockerfile**: Dockerfile for building the application image.
* **docker-compose.yml**: Configuration file for Docker Compose.
* **jest.config**: Configuration file for Jest testing framework.
* **tsconfig.json**: Configuration file for the TypeScript compiler.
* **README.md**: Project documentation and usage instructions.
